>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, I did mention
that there are things that are happening
with the very stages of a component.
And for instance,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: An anti-pattern in
Angular is to have complex construction
logic, or logic in the constructor.
And this is actually
an anti-pattern across the board.
The reason being is, how do you
call the constructor on a class?
You don't.
It's implicitly called.
And so now you're basically tucking
logic into something that you can't
explicitly call.
It's now essentially
coupled to this implicit method
that you can't directly call.
In Angular specifically, is if you
are binding to something on the template
that the parent component is supplying,
that may or may not exist.
So what will happen is you say, okay,
I need items from my parent component.
Well, if it's an asynchronous call,
that still may be end route, and
so it may be a second or two.
When is a constructor called?
[SOUND] Immediately,
the minute you do something up,
[SOUND] that constructor is called.
And so you will run into a problem where
if you assume data is available via
binding for the parent component,
and you put in your constructor,
you're going to realize very quickly
that it may actually work a few times.
And then you have a slow Internet
connection, and it's not there.
So what you do is you pull that out of
the constructor, and you put it into, for
instance, ngOnInit.
And that's when you know safely that
the bindings have been satisfied and
you can assume that it's there.
You can safely operate on it.
And so this is an example of
a lifecycle hook in action.
So here's a list of all
the available lifecycle
hooks.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What you will use,
and every one of these has its utility.
But to simplify it, these are the two
that you'll use most of the time.
And oftentimes, if my component is for
the most part stateless,
I won't even use ngOnDestroy.
Cuz it's very good about
cleaning up after itself.
But you will use ngOnInit
quite frequently.
And so these are here.
I wouldn't worry about them.
The big ones, it's just, no.
Init and destroy, it's alive, it's dying.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
so here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The question
is can ngOnInit fail too,
if you had really bad luck?
Well, I think that depends on [LAUGH]
what do you mean by really bad luck?
Was there an earthquake and
your computer exploded?
Then possibly.
In terms of referencing data,
that ngOnInit
is not fired until ngOnChanges
is fired at least once.
What that means is that anything you're
referencing via binding, is being called.
And so basically you're
binding has been satisfied.
So I don't wanna say never, and
I don't wanna try to quantify or
say, what is bad luck?
But as a whole,
I would be willing to put 100 bucks
on the fact that it's going to work.
If I'm depending on data from binding,
it's going to exist on the ngOnInit block.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you can use ngOnInit or
lifecycle hook without an interface.
But it's considered
best practice to do so.
The reason being is because you
are formalizing your contract with
the component.
And so it also tells your IDE
that this is what's happening.
So it's kinda like putting a ring on it,
if you will.
I'm committed to OnInit, and therefore,
I will call or satisfy this interface.